Project Title: CCS Club Driver Stats
Student Name/s: David Lewis, Ninel Benitez, John Wirth, Justin Grage, Gavin Garcia
The estimated length of entire project description is 4-6 pages, single-spaced.  Writing and references should follow the APA Guidelines.
What will be produced by this project?  
A website that assists in performance analysis for autocross racers of Champaign County Sports Car Club will be produced by the project. Analysis will be based on event data that is collected and stored, along with weather, track type, car configuration, and any other data that is requested by the customer. The website will feature an account system, pages for displaying different stats in different formats, and of course a database to store all the information. A system that is reliable and delivers on all of the customer use cases is the goal.

What software or other specific deliverables would be produced?  Provide an overview of the function of the software or other items delivered. 
A few deliverables will be delivered. One would be an intuitive and efficient UI. The UI is an important factor as it is the user’s main impression of the system. Another deliverable would be an account system. An account system is important for personalizing the website to the user for a better experience. The account system featured will include log in\log out operations as well as settings for the customer to customize their experience. A third deliverable would be collection of event data and the display of it. This is a key one as it’s necessary for the core purpose of the website. To add on, another deliverable would be a personal stats page, which includes event specific results.
	
Who will use the results of the project?  Describe either the specific individual(s) or the general type of user for whom the project results are intended.  Specify different user roles or types, if any. 
This project will be very beneficial for anyone within the Champaign Car Club. Anyone within the club can use this to try to see their performance for the race and will be able to go and get all the information they need. This also can be used by spectators or just people interested in the races to see who performed well last time to compare currently. 

Describe the problems or difficulties currently experienced by the proposed user(s) which will be addressed by the proposed project.  How is the user currently achieving the goals of the intended project results?  Are there needs which are unmet or desired?
Users are going to want to see the stats of other racers and the weather conditions and facts about various races. This website will serve a very similar purpose to the ccsportscarclub website that you were showing us at our last meeting. Users are going to want to see stats such as what the weather was like for the day, the fastest time of the day, the fastest time for each individual race, the class of racers, the fastest running time and pax time in that specific class, handicap scoring, pax listing, raw listing, final, etc. of races within this year/season. The user is also going to be able to sign in and access their garage, which will hold the stats of racers that were saved by the user. In summary, the user much like the website you were showing is going to have easy access to important stats like the ones listed and potentially more if the customer wants more through our website, with the added ability to have their own garage of saved cars. 
We don’t think there are any specific needs that the customer has that are not being addressed(we’re pretty sure we took notes of everything you wanted during the meeting) however we will be in contact with the customer and continue to ask for anything that is needed. 

Describe the project results in more detail, including how they will be used.  Describe in more detail the functions or components of the proposed project deliverables and how will they fit into the user's work activities? 

The results of this project would allow people to get their information on their race and see the standings within the race. The information would give their race times, any penalties added, race class, along with information on the race such as the weather that day.  This information can be used by the user to help improve their performance while also taking note of what may have affected their final score. The racer will be able to see their fastest time of the day along with their fastest PAX time and their raw time. They will also be able to see their handicap when compared to other racers. The user will also be able to store their different cars within their profile. For the more average of a user not an actual racer this project will allow people to get information on different driver’s races to understand the current standings better. The information on the races will be taken from the stats website ccsportscarclub, this will provide times, penalties, car class, and the vehicle driven.  The deliverable account system will be crucial to help keep track of personal information such as a user's race time, their garage(of cars), personal bests, etc.

Review existing software and literature relevant to the proposed project.  Review existing software and its suitability for the user.  Discuss trade and research literature describing functions of features of relevant existing or proposed software.  How will your project extend, enhance, or improve on existing products or practice? (Build vs Buy)
Reviewing the F1 website, it provides basic stats such as name, nationality, team, points, and time for races. In general it seems like a website that displays basic, surface level stats that most casual fans would care about. The NASCAR website that we found displays more in depth stats for individual racers and tracks themselves. It displays stats for racers such as top 5’s, 10’s, wins, losses, Avg start, best finish, etc. for racers at different tracks. 
Our website will allow users to save cars/drivers they were viewing in their own garage, it is going to work kind of like favoriting an item that you see on Amazon. It is also going to display even more stats than the NASCAR and F1 websites. Those stats are all mentioned in question 4 and are going to be specifically made for time trial races. Our website is going to specifically be made for these time trial races, and will display relevant stats for these types of races. 
Describe the benefits and advantages which the user could expect as a result of the project. 
The benefits that a user could expect as a result of this project would be being able to have updated data that consists of key components that would have high impact on a race car’s performance such as having immediate access to data that accounts for the weather that could impact a race car’s performance on the track. Whether it was a sunny or rainy day, what was the temperature? Track Conditions, Car and Engine Performance, Driver Visibility, Safety, Strategy and Setup Adjustments are all things that need to be accounted for. Which is why it would be crucial to have in the application data of the weather. 
Another benefit of the application that a user could expect as a result of this project, would be that a user would be provided with their own or another driver’s status. The proposed project will address these challenges by creating a centralized, user friendly platform that aggregates race data and related factors, making it easy to access, analyze, and compare results.
Contextual race factors such as weather, track layout, and car setup.
Personalized access through accounts that track individual racer history.
Improved usability through a modern interface that simplifies data access for both racers and spectators.


Describe the requirements, costs and commitments for the user as a result of this project.  What additional user costs or work will be necessary to implement this project?  What hardware and software will be needed?  Are they available currently or planned?  Are there any special start-up requirements or training?  
For end users, the costs and commitments associated with the project are minimal. The website will be hosted online and accessible from standard web browsers, requiring no specialized hardware beyond a computer or mobile device with internet access.Users will be able to directly access the app with no additional softwares. Minimal training will be required for racers and spectators, as the system will feature an intuitive user interface. Some initial orientation may be useful for club administrators, who will be responsible for uploading event data, managing accounts, and ensuring that the database remains updated. Documentation and training materials will be provided to make this transition easy on all ends.
Provide a list of the major activities or steps you expect to undertake in completing this project. Include a brief description of each activity or step and an estimated start and finish date for each.  (Estimated 8-15 steps) Think WBS/Gantt Chart. 
1. Plan out use cases and features needed for the site.
2. Gather software tools needed for the site (database, coding software for font-end, etc.).
3. Implement connections between the database and our dataset to ensure data is accessible for the site.
4. Start creating functional front end elements (Menu buttons, important pages like profile and stats list, etc..).
5. Implement data from the database to be displayed in the website front-end (Driver names, times, class, etc.).
6. Touch base with customers to make sure needs are being met for the site before further development of the site.
7. Finish front-end elements and ensure that they are fully functional.
8. Finish full implementation of features of the site (Driver profiles, best times, cars, etc.).

What hardware, software, or other resources you will need to complete this project?  Describe where and how these will be available for use in this project.
We will most likely need to use the provided VM, and a database (most likely MySQL) to create a functioning backend for the website. We should be able to use our own hardware for coding our website in HTML, CSS, and Javascript and accessing the website. These items will be accessible anywhere as long as we have a way to connect to isunet, either on campus or through cisco VPN.

Provide a bibliography of software and literature related to this project and proposal. Include at least all references to software and literature discussed in the #5 or referred to elsewhere in the proposal.
The way we will be getting the information for the data of drivers will be from the website below. We also will need to incorporate weather data and were thinking of using weather underground to get past data on weather during those races.
http://ccsportscarclub.org/files/2025/08/summer-of-speed-08-09-2025_fin.htm 
Final Results. (n.d.). http://ccsportscarclub.org/files/2025/08/summer-of-speed-08-09-2025_fin.htm
https://www.wunderground.com/history/daily/US/IL/61761/date/2022-9-1 
Normal, IL Weather History | Weather Underground. (n.d.). https://www.wunderground.com/history/daily/US/IL/61761/date/2022-9-1
https://www.formula1.com/en/results/2025/drivers
F1 - the official home of Formula 1® racing. (n.d.). Formula 1® - the Official F1® Website. https://www.formula1.com/en/results/2025/drivers
https://www.driveraverages.com/
NASCAR driver averages & statistics. (n.d.). https://www.driveraverages.com/


